 

xiv GUIDELINES

ones, without separate numbering. (On
transitive and intransitive verbs, see
also § 5c23.) Other grammatical cate-
gories are adverb (adv.), numeral
(num.), conjunction (conj.), preposi-
tion (prep.), interjection (int.), and
pronoun (pron.). In the following
examples, cement is first presented as
an adjective; in further subentries, it
is cited in its noun and verb functions:

ער צע- .2.7 || ‎cement 1. adj. ymyoyy‏
צעמענטיר|ן .3.0 - מע'נט ({)

3. In the citation of Eng. phrases,
repetition is avoided by abbreviating
the main entry word (if it contains
three or more letters). In the following
examples, ¢. stands for center and f.s
stands for fits:

center (0) 1ymyx wv || c. of gravity w
(}) ‏שװערפּונקט‎

fit (]) dxday w || by f.s and starts
‏קוי'דערװײַלעך‎

4. Since one of the difficulties of
idioms is that the language learner may
not suspect their existence, they have
been distributed in the dictionary un-
der the main entry word most likely to
be looked up. In many cases appropri-
ate cross-references have been pro-
vided, symbolized by ‘cf.’ For ex-
ample, ‘‘cf. burden’ appearing in the
entry beast suggests that beast of
burden will be found under burden.

To economize on space, cross-refer-
ences have been used sparingly. If a
phrase, e.g. catch fire, is not found
under one main entry (catch), it should
be checked under another (fire).

5. Submeanings of main entry words
or of subentries (words or phrases) are

 

דאָס אָ'נבײַסן (ס), הא ‎dinner (main meal)‏

O- +<—__—®

(}) pyoayn - (midday) 0190 ‏רער מיטאָג‎
—® 1 @—__»+_-®

(1)
©

6. Here is an example of an entry
containing both types of separation
symbols, with an indication of the
order in which the material must be
read:

fork 1.7. (jy) Deyiw || (hay) ‏די ווידלע‎
O—— -——_®@ || @-> -<_®

אָנן- .2.0 || יי שיידוועג (() ‎(road)‏ 4 )0(

4916-3 093 6

שטעכ|ן אויף אַ נאָפּל
9

b. Subentries

1. Subentries are used for four pur-
poses: (a) to distinguish grammatical
categories of the Eng. entry word;
(b) to provide Yid. equivalents for
phrases containing the entry word;
(c) to specify submeanings of an entry
word or of a phrase; and (d) to ex-
emplify usage.

2. The most common grammatical
categories to which an Eng. entry word
may belong are adjective (adj.), noun
(n.), and verb (v.). Appropriate sub-
entries are presented in this order, each
subentry being numbered. Wherever
necessary, verbs are subdivided into
transitive (vt.) and intransitive )07.(

 

 

 

 
